---
layout: post
title:  "Book 1: Speed-Reading for Professionals by H. Bernard Wechsler and Arthur H. Bell"
date:   2018-01-19 22:30:00
categories:
---
Speed reading is a natural place to start for the 1000 book challenge. My base rate is 226 WPM, so I am a pretty slow reader, although I have tried various tools (such as Spreeder) and techniques in the past, so I can boost my speed when I focus on it. That's what I did today.

Today I picked up *Speed-Reading for Professionals* by H. Bernard Wechsler and Arthur H. Bell, a relatively short review of the common speed reading techniques.

The points I learned that I found most helpful:

1. Overcome backtracking by pacing with a pen and believing that the best is yet to come, so there's no need to review what you might have missed.
2. Use a soft-focus and abandon the idea that you have to sharply focus on every word; instead, rely on chunking to instantly recognize word groups and phrases.
3. Speed reading is as much a concentration exercise as it is a physical process; you must push your limits on both and avoid falling back into poor habits.

The book proceeds with more advanced techniques and deeper explanations of chunking, etc., but I did not find this terribly helpful. It's worth review as I read more and read faster, as the book is structured as a course, but I don't believe, or don't find helpful if true, the claims that every additional techniques, layered upon previous ones, yields an *additional* 20-40% increase in speed. I will be perfectly happy to finish about a book a day in 1.5-4 hours.
